docs: add chatlas integration and `CloudflareCrawler` user guide articles (#77)
dfalbel/raghilda: user_guide/52-cloudflare-crawler.qmd

---
title: "Cloudflare Browser Rendering Crawler"
guide-section: "Store Backends"
---

> Some websites load their content entirely through JavaScript. A conventional HTTP request to such a site returns an empty shell or a loading spinner rather than the actual text. The `CloudflareCrawler` addresses this by delegating page fetching and rendering to [Cloudflare's Browser Rendering API](https://developers.cloudflare.com/browser-rendering/), which executes JavaScript and returns the fully rendered page content as Markdown. Because the conversion to Markdown happens on Cloudflare's servers, you receive ready-to-chunk text without needing to run a headless browser locally.

Reviewer: This is one of the benefits of the Cloudflare backend, but I'm not sure it's the one to lead with. Cloudflare lets you offload the potentially very long-running crawling task, and possibly Markdown conversion, from the local host to Cloudflare's servers (for a fee).

Author: I rewrote this opening and lead with the other, more-compelling benefit.

The printed `IngestSummary` reports how many documents were newly added, how many had their content replaced, and how many were skipped because identical content was already in the store.

## How it differs from WebCrawler

`WebCrawler` fetches raw HTML with `requests` and converts it to Markdown locally. `CloudflareCrawler` offloads both the fetching and the Markdown conversion to Cloudflare's infrastructure. The practical differences are:

- JavaScript rendering: `CloudflareCrawler` executes JavaScript before extracting content. Single-page applications, dynamically-loaded documentation sites, and client-rendered dashboards all work without additional configuration.
- No local browser required: you do not need Playwright, Selenium, or any headless browser installed.
- Cloudflare handles link discovery: instead of parsing anchor tags from raw HTML (which may not exist until JavaScript runs), Cloudflare discovers links from the rendered DOM.

> - Markdown arrives pre-converted: the API returns Markdown directly, so there is no local HTML-to-Markdown conversion step.

Reviewer: I believe this is optional - users can easily choose to use any markdown converter instead of the cloudflare one.

Author: Thanks! Clarified this.

The tradeoff is that `CloudflareCrawler` requires a Cloudflare account with Browser Rendering access and incurs API usage costs. For static HTML sites, `WebCrawler` is simpler (and free).

## Browser rendering

> The `render=` parameter controls whether Cloudflare executes JavaScript before extracting page content. It defaults to `True`, which is the right choice for any site that relies on client-side rendering. When enabled, Cloudflare loads each page in a headless browser, waits for scripts to finish, and extracts text from the fully populated DOM.

Reviewer: This might be a good feature to add to `WebCrawler`.

Author: Opened this issue to that effect: https://github.com/posit-dev/raghilda/issues/78

crawler = CloudflareCrawler(
    account_id=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
    api_token=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
    source="all",
)
```

Other options for `source=` are:

- `"sitemap"`: only discover pages listed in the site's `sitemap.xml`. This is efficient for well-maintained sites where the sitemap is comprehensive.
- `"crawl"`: follow links from the rendered DOM, similar to traditional web crawling but with JavaScript execution.
- `"urls"`: only process the explicitly provided root URLs, without following any links.

For a documentation site with a complete sitemap, `"sitemap"` is typically the fastest option because it avoids rendering every page just to find links:

```{python}
#| eval: false
crawler = CloudflareCrawler(
    account_id=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
    api_token=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
    source="sitemap",
)

scope = CrawlScope(
    roots=["https://example.com/docs/"],
    depth=0,
)
```

With `source="sitemap"` and `depth=0`, Cloudflare reads the sitemap from the root and returns all listed pages without further link-following.

## Filtering with Cloudflare-style patterns

> The `include_patterns=` and `exclude_patterns=` fields on `CrawlScope` behave differently depending on which crawler you use. With `WebCrawler`, they are Python regular expressions matched locally. With `CloudflareCrawler`, they are forwarded directly to the Cloudflare API as Cloudflare wildcard patterns, where `**` matches any number of path segments:

Reviewer: We can probably change the API to remove this difference: we can treat patterns as globs instead of regexes by default, and have behavior align between the different crawler backends. What do you think? For regexes, we can also optionally accept pre-compiled regexes in addition to a `str`.

Author: I agree that the APIs should be aligned. Will open an issue with a proposed interface.

Author: I opened https://github.com/posit-dev/raghilda/issues/79.

```{python}
#| eval: false
from datetime import timedelta

crawler = CloudflareCrawler(
    account_id=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_ACCOUNT_ID"],
    api_token=os.environ["CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN"],
    cache_dir=True,
    cache_stale_after=timedelta(days=1),
)
```

With caching enabled, the crawler stores both the crawl job results (list of discovered URLs and their rendered Markdown) and the individual page records on disk. On subsequent runs, fresh cached results are reused without making any Cloudflare API calls.

The `cache_stale_after=` parameter controls when cached results are considered stale. When a cached entry is stale, the crawler sends a new request to Cloudflare with a `maxAge` hint asking for updated content. When `cache_stale_after` is not set, cached entries never expire.

To force a completely fresh crawl that bypasses the cache entirely, pass `cache_force_refresh=True` to `markdown_documents()`:

```{python}
#| eval: false
# Ignore all cached results, re-crawl everything
documents = crawler.markdown_documents(scope, cache_force_refresh=True)
```

> The cache validates its entries against a signature that includes the `account_id=`, `render=`, `source=`, and `modified_since=` settings. If any of these change between runs, the cache is automatically invalidated. This prevents stale results from a different configuration being reused.

Reviewer: Hmm, we should probably omit `account_id` from the key used by the cache - that shouldn't matter.

Author: Added https://github.com/posit-dev/raghilda/issues/80 to address. Will also change the text here in the guide page to omit that.

if __name__ == "__main__":
    if DB_PATH.exists():
        refresh_store()
    else:
        build_store()
```

The script has two paths: an initial build that creates the store from scratch, and a refresh path that reconnects and upserts only changed content. The cache and the store's own deduplication (`skip_if_unchanged=True` in `upsert()`) work together to keep refresh runs fast: the cache avoids re-fetching pages whose content has not changed, and the store avoids re-computing embeddings for documents that are identical to what is already stored.

## When to use CloudflareCrawler

Choosing between `CloudflareCrawler` and `WebCrawler` comes down to whether the target site needs JavaScript to produce its content and whether you are willing to depend on an external service. Neither crawler is strictly better as they serve different situations.

Use `CloudflareCrawler` when:

- the target site renders content with JavaScript (React, Vue, Angular, etc.)
- you need Cloudflare's sitemap-aware discovery rather than manual link following
- you want pre-converted Markdown without running local conversion logic

> - the site is large enough that Cloudflare's distributed infrastructure crawls it faster than sequential local requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the site is large enough that Cloudflare's distributed infrastructure crawls it faster than concurrent local requests
```

The printed `IngestSummary` reports how many documents were newly added, how many had their content replaced, and how many were skipped because identical content was already in the store.

## How it differs from WebCrawler

`WebCrawler` fetches raw HTML with `requests` and converts it to Markdown locally. `CloudflareCrawler` offloads both the fetching and the Markdown conversion to Cloudflare's infrastructure. The practical differences are:

- JavaScript rendering: `CloudflareCrawler` executes JavaScript before extracting content. Single-page applications, dynamically-loaded documentation sites, and client-rendered dashboards all work without additional configuration.
- No local browser required: you do not need Playwright, Selenium, or any headless browser installed.
- Cloudflare handles link discovery: instead of parsing anchor tags from raw HTML (which may not exist until JavaScript runs), Cloudflare discovers links from the rendered DOM.

> - Markdown arrives pre-converted: the API returns Markdown directly, and, you can optionally choose any HTML-to-Markdown converter instead of Cloudflare's.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Markdown can arrive pre-converted: the API can return Markdown directly, with HTML-to-Markdown conversion performed by Cloudflare. This is optional: you can still choose to receive raw HTML and then perform HTML-to-Markdown conversion locally using Raghilda's built-in converter or another converter of your choice.
```
